Pivoting with the Metasploit Framework
After compromising a target, we can pivot
from that system to additional targets.
We can pivot from within
the MSF, which is convenient,
but lacks the flexibility of
manual pivoting techniques.
For example, let’s leverage our
existing Meterpreter session
to enumerate the internal network’s
Active Directory infrastructure
and pivot to other machines.
To begin, we notice that the compromised
windows client has two network interfaces.
We will use “route” and “add”…
to create a path to the alternate internal
network subnet we discovered.
We will also identify the session
ID that this route will apply to.
With a path created to the internal
network, we can now enumerate this subnet.
Since we already know the IP
address of the domain controller,
we will perform a limited port scan of
it using the tcp portscan module.
Our scan has found that these
ports are open on the internal system,
despite the fact we
can’t reach it directly.
Since we prevously discovered valid
administrative credentials
for the domain controller,
we may now attempt a pivot to it through
the use of the psexec module.
We need to specify credentials
by configuring values for
SMBDomain,
SMBUser,
and SMBPass.
Next, we specify the
target with set rhosts,
and configure our
payload and its options.
It’s important to note
that the added route will
only work with established connections.
Because of this, the new shell on the
domain controller must be a bind shell,
thus allowing us to use
the set route to connect to it.
A reverse shell payload would not
be able to find its way
back to our attacking system
because the domain controller does
not have a route defined for our network.
In this manner, we were able
to obtain a meterpreter shell
from the Domain Controller
on the internal network
we would otherwise not
be able to reach directly.
As an alternative to
adding routes manually,
we can use the autoroute post-exploitation
module, which can set up pivot routes
through an existing meterpreter
session automatically.
To do this, we’ll find and set our
session number and run the module.
We can also combine routes
with the socks4a server module
to configure a socks proxy
to allow applications
outside the Metasploit Framework
to tunnel through the pivot.
To do this, we will first set the module
to use the localhost for the proxy
and then launch it.
We can now update our
proxychains configuration file
to take advantage of
the socks proxy…
by adding a configuration line to the end
of the proxychains.conf file.
Finally, we can use proxychains to
run an application like rdesktop
to obtain GUI access from
our Kali linux machine
to the domain controller
on the internal network.
Next the rdesktop client opens and allows
us to login to the domain controller.
We can also use a similar
technique for port forwarding
using the portfwd command
from inside a Meterpreter session,
which will forward a specific
port into the internal network.
We can create a port forward
from localhost port 3389…
to port 3389 on the compromised host.
We can test this by pointing
the rdesktop client to 127.0.0.1
to connect to the compromised host.
Using this technique, we are able to
gain a remote desktop session
on a host we are otherwise not
able to reach from our Kali system.
Likewise, if the domain controller was
connected to an additional network,
we could create a chain of
pivots to reach any host.